README.md, before:

# REDMANE Docker Deployment

This repository contains the Docker orchestration files (docker-compose and dockerfiles) for deploying the REDMANE Data Registry application stack.

## Overview

REDMANE (Research Data Management and Analysis Environment) is a web application that track research datasets, project data, etc. without actually storing them. This repo provides the top-level Docker configuration that ties together the frontend, backend, and database services with SSL termination via https-portal container (instead of separate nginx and certbot instances).

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  Docker Network (redmane-network)                               │
│                                                                 │
│  ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐          │
│  │ https-portal│    │  frontend   │    │  backend    │          │
│  │  :80/:443   │───►│  (React)    │───►│  (FastAPI)  │          │
│  │             │.   │  :5173      │    │  :8888      │          │
│  └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘          │
│        │                                      │                 │
│        │            ┌─────────────┐           │                 │
│        │            │     db      │◄──────────┘                 │
│        │            │ (PostgreSQL)│                             │
│        │            │  :5432      │                             │
│        │            └─────────────┘                             │
│        │                                                        │
│        └─ Path-based routing:                                   │
│             /         → frontend:5173                           │
│             /fastapi/ → backend:8888                            │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Repository Structure

```
REDMANE_Docker/
├── docker-compose.yaml              # Main orchestration file
├── redmane_fastapi.dockerfile       # Backend container build
├── redmane_reactjs.dockerfile       # Frontend container build
├── data-registry.wehi-rcp.cloud.edu.au.conf.erb  # Custom nginx config for path-based routing
├── .gitignore
└── README.md
```

**Note:** The following folders are cloned separately and/or excluded via .gitignore:
- `REDMANE_fastapi/` - Backend application (separate repo)
- `REDMANE_react.js/` - Frontend application (separate repo)
- `backups/` - VM's backup folder (not tracked in any git repo)

## Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed (done)
- Access to the target VM (via SSH, check technical diaries)
- Domain DNS configured to point to the VM's IP address (done)

## Context on https-portal

It is a ready-to-use docker image that combines the functionality of nginx (reverse proxying, hosting static frontend files, SSL termination) and certbot (automated SSL certificate obtainment and renewal/management). For more context, visit: https://github.com/SteveLTN/https-portal

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Clone this repository on the REDMANE folder of the Data Registry VM

```bash
cd REDMANE
git clone https://github.com:WEHI-RCPStudentInternship/REDMANE_Docker.git .
```

### 2. Clone the application repositories (DRAFT)

```bash
# Frontend
git clone -b 13-semester2_2025 https://github.com/WEHI-RCPStudentInternship/REDMANE_react.js.git

# Backend
git clone -b 13-2025-Semester-2 https://github.com/WEHI-RCPStudentInternship/REDMANE_fastapi.git

# Database initialization scripts
git clone -b sem_2_2025 https://github.com/WEHI-RCPStudentInternship/REDMANE_fastapi_public_data.git REDMANE_fastapi/data/REDMANE_fastapi_public_data
```

### 3. Configure environment

Before starting, verify the following in `docker-compose.yaml`:
- `STAGE` is set appropriately (`local`, `staging`, or `production`)
- Database credentials match your requirements
- Domain name in https-portal DOMAINS matches your setup

### 4. Start the stack

```bash
docker compose up --build -d
```

### 5. Verify deployment

- Frontend: access `https://data-registry.wehi-rcp.cloud.edu.au/projects` on an incognito browser (so that caches are not saved)
- Backend API: perform this on your terminal:
```bash
curl https://data-registry.wehi-rcp.cloud.edu.au/projects # if SSL certs have been obtained
curl -k https://data-registry.wehi-rcp.cloud.edu.au/projects # if SSL certs have not been obtained, or in local/staging STAGE
```

## Configuration Details

### https-portal Stages

| Stage | Purpose | Certificates |
|-------|---------|--------------|
| `local` | Local development | Self-signed |
| `staging` | Testing SSL setup | Let's Encrypt staging (not trusted) |
| `production` | Live deployment | Let's Encrypt production (trusted) |

**Important:** Always test with `staging` before switching to `production` to avoid hitting Let's Encrypt rate limits.

### Path-Based Routing

The `.conf.erb` file configures nginx (inside https-portal) to route:
- All requests to `/` → React frontend container
- All requests to `/fastapi/` → FastAPI backend container

## Related Repositories

- [REDMANE_fastapi](https://github.com/WEHI-RCPStudentInternship/REDMANE_fastapi) - FastAPI backend
- [REDMANE_react.js](https://github.com/WEHI-RCPStudentInternship/REDMANE_react.js) - React frontend
- [REDMANE_fastapi_public_data](https://github.com/WEHI-RCPStudentInternship/REDMANE_fastapi_public_data) - Database initialization scripts

## Troubleshooting

### Check container logs
```bash
docker compose logs -f [service_name]
```

### Rebuild after changes
```bash
docker compose down
docker compose up --build -d
```

Commit message:

Add warning about Let's Encrypt rate limits

README.md, after:

# REDMANE Docker Deployment

This repository contains the Docker orchestration files (docker-compose and dockerfiles) for deploying the REDMANE Data Registry application stack.

## Overview

REDMANE (Research Data Management and Analysis Environment) is a web application that track research datasets, project data, etc. without actually storing them. This repo provides the top-level Docker configuration that ties together the frontend, backend, and database services with SSL termination via https-portal container (instead of separate nginx and certbot instances).

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  Docker Network (redmane-network)                               │
│                                                                 │
│  ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐    ┌─────────────┐          │
│  │ https-portal│    │  frontend   │    │  backend    │          │
│  │  :80/:443   │───►│  (React)    │───►│  (FastAPI)  │          │
│  │             │.   │  :5173      │    │  :8888      │          │
│  └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘    └─────────────┘          │
│        │                                      │                 │
│        │            ┌─────────────┐           │                 │
│        │            │     db      │◄──────────┘                 │
│        │            │ (PostgreSQL)│                             │
│        │            │  :5432      │                             │
│        │            └─────────────┘                             │
│        │                                                        │
│        └─ Path-based routing:                                   │
│             /         → frontend:5173                           │
│             /fastapi/ → backend:8888                            │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Repository Structure

```
REDMANE_Docker/
├── docker-compose.yaml              # Main orchestration file
├── redmane_fastapi.dockerfile       # Backend container build
├── redmane_reactjs.dockerfile       # Frontend container build
├── data-registry.wehi-rcp.cloud.edu.au.conf.erb  # Custom nginx config for path-based routing
├── .gitignore
└── README.md
```

**Note:** The following folders are cloned separately and/or excluded via .gitignore:
- `REDMANE_fastapi/` - Backend application (separate repo)
- `REDMANE_react.js/` - Frontend application (separate repo)
- `backups/` - VM's backup folder (not tracked in any git repo)

## Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose installed (done)
- Access to the target VM (via SSH, check technical diaries)
- Domain DNS configured to point to the VM's IP address (done)

## Context on https-portal

It is a ready-to-use docker image that combines the functionality of nginx (reverse proxying, hosting static frontend files, SSL termination) and certbot (automated SSL certificate obtainment and renewal/management). For more context, visit: https://github.com/SteveLTN/https-portal

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Clone this repository on the REDMANE folder of the Data Registry VM

```bash
cd REDMANE
git clone https://github.com:WEHI-RCPStudentInternship/REDMANE_Docker.git .
```

### 2. Clone the application repositories (DRAFT)

```bash
# Frontend
git clone -b 13-semester2_2025 https://github.com/WEHI-RCPStudentInternship/REDMANE_react.js.git

# Backend
git clone -b 13-2025-Semester-2 https://github.com/WEHI-RCPStudentInternship/REDMANE_fastapi.git

# Database initialization scripts
git clone -b sem_2_2025 https://github.com/WEHI-RCPStudentInternship/REDMANE_fastapi_public_data.git REDMANE_fastapi/data/REDMANE_fastapi_public_data
```

### 3. Configure environment

Before starting, verify the following in `docker-compose.yaml`:
- `STAGE` is set appropriately (`local`, `staging`, or `production`)
  - Do not use 'production' unless the setup has been successfully tested in staging. 'production' will hit the production side of Let's Encrypt and they have rate limits
- Database credentials match other parts of the backend and database codes
- Domain name in https-portal container's DOMAINS variable matches your setup

### 4. Start the stack

```bash
docker compose up --build -d
```

### 5. Verify deployment

- Frontend: access `https://data-registry.wehi-rcp.cloud.edu.au/projects` on an incognito browser (so that caches are not saved)
- Backend API: perform this on your terminal:
```bash
curl https://data-registry.wehi-rcp.cloud.edu.au/projects # if SSL certs have been obtained
curl -k https://data-registry.wehi-rcp.cloud.edu.au/projects # if SSL certs have not been obtained, or in local/staging STAGE
```

## Configuration Details

### https-portal Stages

| Stage | Purpose | Certificates |
|-------|---------|--------------|
| `local` | Local development | Self-signed |
| `staging` | Testing SSL setup | Let's Encrypt staging (not trusted) |
| `production` | Live deployment | Let's Encrypt production (trusted) |

**Important:** Always test with `staging` before switching to `production` to avoid hitting Let's Encrypt rate limits.

### Path-Based Routing

The `.conf.erb` file configures nginx (inside https-portal) to route:
- All requests to `/` → React frontend container
- All requests to `/fastapi/` → FastAPI backend container

## Related Repositories

- [REDMANE_fastapi](https://github.com/WEHI-RCPStudentInternship/REDMANE_fastapi) - FastAPI backend
- [REDMANE_react.js](https://github.com/WEHI-RCPStudentInternship/REDMANE_react.js) - React frontend
- [REDMANE_fastapi_public_data](https://github.com/WEHI-RCPStudentInternship/REDMANE_fastapi_public_data) - Database initialization scripts

## Troubleshooting

### Check container logs
```bash
docker compose logs -f [service_name]
```

### Rebuild after changes
```bash
docker compose down
docker compose up --build -d
```
